Hello! So you want
to learn how to make websites.
In that case you need to learn HTML!
So let's start at the very beginning.
What exactly is HTML?
And why do I need it?
Let's break it down from the basics,
and build our way up.
HTML stands for HyperText Markup Language.
It uses markup to describe
the structure of web pages.
The structure is built up by elements,
and they are represented by tags!
Tags label pieces of content
such as "heading"
"paragraph" "table" and so on.
These tags aren't shown on the page,
but are used to display content
in different ways.
That's a lot to digest!
So let's go into it.
First let's try it together.
Don't worry about understanding,
it'll all click as we work through it.
We start by declaring
that this is an HTML document.
The <html> is the root
element of any HTML page.
The <head> contains meta information
about the document.
The <title> element specifies
a title for the document.
The <body> contains
the visible page content.
Finally, the <h1> defines a large heading,
while <p> defines a paragraph.
With everything set in the order, let's
go into the explanation of how tags work.
Tags typically come in pairs.
A start tag, and the end tag.
The end tag is written
just like the start tag,
but with a forward slash inserted
before the tag name.
Here we've got the tag name
and the forward slash tag name.
And the contents of the element
in between them.
So if this was a paragraph, we'd use
<p> --- </p> and some text in the middle.
Let's play a game.
See if we can correctly match start,
and end tags, together.
So what turns HTML code and elements
into a viewable website?
Well, that's where web browsers come in.
The purpose of a web browser, be
it Chrome, Firefox, Edge,
or Safari, is to read HTML documents
and display them.
But, the browser
does not display the HTML code.
Instead, it uses it, to determine
how to display the document.
Let's see what kind of building blocks
are hidden behind this webpage.
This is a visualization
of an HTML page structure.
You can see the HTML,
the head, with the page title
below that, and then the body under that.
And that's the basics.
Let's delve into this further,
but for now, take a break.